DOCS-8082 made edits (#254)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/building-soap-proxy.adoc

= Build SOAP API Proxies
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

API Manager 2.x enables you to use SOAP API proxies for your SOAP-based web services. The SOAP proxy requires a WSDL definition that describes the backend service. The  WSDL definition enables the API proxy to perform validations on incoming requests and correctly routes outbound requests to the corresponding API endpoint. 

> Based on your configuration, validations are performed either against the SOAP message schema and the envelope, or only the envelope. By default, SOAP message schema validations are disabled.

Reviewer: In the last sentence, I would add "which means only envelope validations are performed.", to make it more clear

Author: By default, only envelope validations are performed. Added this to make it clear. When we say only A is done, it implies B is not. I think we should leave it at that. The users would get it.

Reviewer: Ok, it seems fine to me. I completely agree on the "only A is done, it implies B is not", it's just sometimes I do not trust the user on comprehension that much.

== How schemas are Validated on SOAP Proxies

When you enable validations for an API, the SOAP action in the inbound request is matched against the same-named operation defined in the WSDL definition. After the matching operation is obtained, the proxy validates whether the namespace URI of the element and the name associated with the operation matches the same details in the incoming request. 

> If the validation fails, an error message informing the expected namespace URI and element name is generated. If the SOAP action in the inbound request is empty, the application attempts to match the namespace URI and element name of the incoming request element to all the operations defined in the WSDL definition. 

Reviewer: I would remove the word "definition" at the end of the paragraph.

Reviewer: This because the word "definition" after WSDL might be a little redundant since WSDL stands for Web Services Description Language: https://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl.html

Author: Done! Thanks!

The first operation that matches the incoming request determines whether the validation is successful. If the match fails, an error message is generated with the suggested tag names for the element in the request.

If you have disabled validations for an API, only the envelope is validated by verifying whether the inbound element contains a valid soap envelope with the correct namespace based on the soap version of the binding being invoked.

== Retrieving the WSDL Definition from the Proxy Application

The SOAP proxy allows POST requests to the backend web service and a GET request for the service WSDL. The GET request is performed by an HTTP GET method with “wsdl” as the query parameter:

`http://my-proxy-url:myProxyPort?wsdl`
+
Or
+
`http://my-proxy-url:myProxyPort?WSDL`

== Configuring your SOAP Proxy

To configure your SOAP proxy:

. In API Manager, select  *Manage API > Manage API from Exchange* to create your API Instance.
+
Alternatively, you can also create an API instance in API Manager or import a previously exported API configuration zip file.

> . Specify the API version and the asset version details in the *API version* and *Asset version* fields for the instance that you are creating.

Reviewer: I think it is more clear as it is written in the google doc. Where this sentence is just after the "Manage API from Exchange" phrase. Since each of the three ways available to create an API provides a different path

Author: Done! Thanks!

.. Select your scheme and port number for your API proxy from the respective fields. 
.. Optionally, specify an label and response timeout period in the *API Instance label* and a *Response Timeout* fields.
. Click *Save*.

== Troubleshooting SOAP Proxy for Missing Imports on XSD Files

A SOAP proxy can fail in deploy time due to an incorrect WSDL definition. For example, the following error indicates missing imports in one of the XSD files that are a part of the WSDL: 

[source,text,linenums]
----
org.xml.sax.SAXParseException; systemId: http://localhost:8080/?wsdl304785538; 
lineNumber: 2; columnNumber: 52; src-resolve.4.2: Error resolving component 
'myNamespace:myElement’. It was detected that 'myNamespace:myElement' is in namespace 
'http://my.namespace.url', but components from this namespace are not referenceable 
from schema document 'http://localhost:8080/?wsdl304785538'. If this is the incorrect
namespace, perhaps the prefix of 'myNamespace:myElement' needs to be changed. If this 
is the correct namespace, then an appropriate 'import' tag should be added to 
'http://localhost:8080/?wsdl304785538'.
----

> This issue occurs when the definition of an element in the WSDL file is found in an external XSD with another namespace instead of the current WSDL file. 

Reviewer: "[...]the definition of an element _used_ in the WSDL", maybe? Or something along those lines. In order to make it clear that the element is present in the WSDL, but not it's definition. What do you think?

Author: Done! Thanks!

= Build SOAP API Proxies
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> API Manager 2.x enables you to use SOAP API proxies for your SOAP-based web services. The SOAP proxy requires a WSDL definition that describes the backend service. The  WSDL enables the API proxy to perform validations on incoming requests and correctly routes outbound requests to the corresponding API endpoint. 

Reviewer 2: Does you audience all know what WSDL represents?

Reviewer 2: Extra space:
```suggestion
API Manager 2.x enables you to use SOAP API proxies for your SOAP-based web services. The SOAP proxy requires a WSDL definition that describes the backend service. The WSDL enables the API proxy to perform validations on incoming requests and correctly routes outbound requests to the corresponding API endpoint. 
```
But is it accurate to say that the LANGUAGE (WSDL) enables the proxy to perform validations and routes them? You might need to reword this.

Author: The WSDL defines how the API proxy must perform validations on incoming requests and correctly routes outbound requests for the corresponding API endpoint.

> Based on your configuration, validations are performed either against the SOAP message schema and the envelope, or only the envelope. By default, only envelope validations are performed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on your configuration, validations are performed either against both the SOAP message schema and the envelope or only the envelope (default). 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> == How SOAP Proxies schemas are Validated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== How SOAP Proxy Schemas Are Validated
```
"SOAP Proxy Schema Validation"?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> When you enable validations for an API, the SOAP action in the inbound request is matched against the same-named operation in the WSDL. After the matching operation is obtained, the proxy validates whether the namespace URI of the element and the name associated with the operation matches the same details in the incoming request. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you enable validations for an API, the SOAP action in the inbound request is matched with an operation with the same name in the WSDL. The proxy then validates that the namespace URI of the element has the same name. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> If the validation fails, an error message informing the expected namespace URI and element name is generated. If the SOAP action in the inbound request is empty, the application attempts to match the namespace URI and element name of the incoming request element to all the operations defined in the WSDL. 

Reviewer 2: This is a bit confusing because the previous paragraph refers to "the namespace URI of the element," which is one thing, and this paragraph refers to "the expected namespace URI and element name," which is either two things or two descriptors for one thing. Which phrase is correct?

Reviewer 2: Would it be understood by your audience if we simplify this to...:
```suggestion
If the names do not match, an error message results. If the SOAP action in the inbound request is empty, the application then attempts to match the namespace URI and element name of the incoming request element with one of the operations defined in the WSDL. 
```

Reviewer 2: I also wonder if the first sentence above belongs with the previous paragraph or this one, because it seems that "If the SOAP action...is empty" describes a separate cause for failure: instead of a name mismatch, a missing name?
Are we documenting two reasons for failure, or just one?

Author: As is fine. Done! Thanks!

> The first operation that matches the incoming request determines whether the validation is successful. If the match fails, an error message is generated with the suggested tag names for the element in the request.

Reviewer 2: Is this correct?
```suggestion
The first operation that matches both the URI and element name in the incoming request ends the search and successfully completes the validation. If no operations match, an error message is generated.
```
This omitted phrase is unclear: "with the suggested tag names for the element in the request". Is the error message naming the faulty element name or suggesting possible alternatives?

Author: Leaving as is. Thanks! Done!

> If you have disabled validations for an API, only the envelope is validated by verifying whether the inbound element contains a valid soap envelope with the correct namespace based on the soap version of the binding being invoked.

Reviewer 2: Why is this text in a topic about validation?
Should this text be up in the container topic?
The container topic says "Based on your configuration, validations are performed either against both the SOAP message schema and the envelope or only the envelope (default)." Is this text here saying that validating only the envelope, the default, happens when you have disabled API validations? 
I think you should reconsider both texts about then envelope, if that situation is when validation is DISABLED, since these texts are about enabled validation, I assume. Mentioning this just confuses the issue. But I am curious: if disabled validation is the default, why do we document validation as if it is a required task?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> == Retrieving the WSDL Definition from the Proxy Application

Reviewer 2: Is this topic really a peer to the previous topic?
And isn't this topic already assumed in the previous topic (assumed that the WSDL definition is available)?
Are these topics in chronological order?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The SOAP proxy allows POST requests to the backend web service and a GET request for the service WSDL. The GET request is performed by an HTTP GET method with “wsdl” as the query parameter:

Reviewer 2: Does this really mean that...:
```suggestion
The SOAP proxy allows the backend web service to post requests (POST) and to retrieve (GET) the service WSDL. The GET request is performed by an HTTP GET method with either `wsdl` or `WSDL` as the query parameter:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`http://my-proxy-url:myProxyPort?wsdl`
+

> Or

Reviewer 2: omit
Do not use a single plain text word or fragment between syntax examples.

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
`http://my-proxy-url:myProxyPort?WSDL`

> == Configuring your SOAP Proxy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure Your SOAP Proxy
```
Again, does this topic appear in the order in which the audience needs it, compared with the previous two?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To configure your SOAP proxy:

Reviewer 2: ditto omit

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . In API Manager, select *Manage API > Create new API* to create your API Instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In API Manager, select *Manage API > Create new API* to create your API instance.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> Alternatively, you can also import a previously exported API configuration zip file or manage an API from exchange.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can import a previously exported API configuration ZIP file or manage an API from Exchange.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . In the *Name* field, specify a name for the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Name* field, specify a unique name for your API.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . From the *Asset type* field, select `SOAP API - WSDL`. 

Reviewer 2: "select" from a "field"?
Fields in UIs typically require input.

Author: Done! Thanks!

. In the *File upload* field, upload the corresponding WSDL file and click *Continue*.
+

> Alternatively, you can specify the URL link to the web service hosting the WSDL, in the *File URL* field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, specify in the *File URL* field the URL link to the web service hosting the WSDL
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
image:build-soap-proxy-endpoint-configuration.png[Specify Endpoint Configuration Details for SOAP Proxies]

> . To configure your API proxy for this API instance, from the *Managing Type* field on the Endpoint configuration page, select the *Endpoint with Proxy* option.

Reviewer 2: ditto re. selecting from a field. You select from a list or menu, not a field.
Maybe replace "the <blah> field" with just "<blah>:
```suggestion
. To configure your API proxy for this API instance, in *Managing Type* on the *Endpoint configuration* page, select *Endpoint with Proxy*.
```
Sometimes it is just easier to use the UI label alone rather than trying to name what type of element it is....

Author: Done! Thanks!

. In the *Proxy deployment target* section, select from the available deployment targets displayed.
. If you are managing this API in Mule 4 or later, select the *Mule version* checkbox and specify appropriate details in the *Service Name*, *Service Port*, and *Service Namespace* fields. 
You must have obtained these values from the WSDL.
. In the *Implementation URI* field, specify the URL.
. Click *Advanced options* and perform the following steps:
+
image:build-soap-proxy-advanced-options.png[SOAP Proxy Advanced Options for Configuring Endpoint]

> .. In the *Proxy Version* field, select `latest`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. In *Proxy Version*, select `latest`. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
This value ensures that your API proxy uses the latest released proxy version.
.. Select the *Validations* checkbox if you want schema validations to be performed on incoming requests.

> .. Select your scheme and port number for your API proxy from the respective fields. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Select a schema and port number for your API proxy from the respective fields. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> .. Optionally, specify an API instance label and response timeout period in the *API Instance label* and a *Response Timeout* fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Optionally, specify an API instance label and response timeout period.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Click *Save*.

> == Troubleshooting SOAP Proxy for Missing Imports on XSD Files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== SOAP Proxy for Missing Imports on XSD Files Troubleshooting
```

Author: No the former sounds better I think! Done! Thanks!

> A SOAP proxy can fail during deploy time due to an incorrect WSDL definition. For example, the following error indicates missing imports in one of the XSD files that are a part of the WSDL: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A SOAP proxy can fail during deployment due to an incorrect WSDL definition. For example, the following error indicates missing imports in one of the XSD files that are a part of the WSDL: 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,text,linenums]
----
org.xml.sax.SAXParseException; systemId: http://localhost:8080/?wsdl304785538; 
lineNumber: 2; columnNumber: 52; src-resolve.4.2: Error resolving component 
'myNamespace:myElement’. It was detected that 'myNamespace:myElement' is in namespace 
'http://my.namespace.url', but components from this namespace are not referenceable 
from schema document 'http://localhost:8080/?wsdl304785538'. If this is the incorrect
namespace, perhaps the prefix of 'myNamespace:myElement' needs to be changed. If this 
is the correct namespace, then an appropriate 'import' tag should be added to 
'http://localhost:8080/?wsdl304785538'.
----

> This issue occurs when the definition of an element that is used in the WSDL file is found in an external XSD with another namespace instead of the current WSDL file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This issue occurs when the definition of an element that is used in the WSDL file is found in an external XSD with a namespace other than that of the current WSDL file. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> You can resolve this issue by adding the appropriate imports in the WSDL file. For example, for the exception in the previous example, the WSDL file must contain the following import in the types element:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can resolve this issue by adding the appropriate imports in the WSDL file. For example, for the exception in the previous example, the WSDL file must contain the following import in the `types` element:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
